CMake-based STM32F4 Template
============================

This repository contains a CMake-based template project as a starting point for STM32 F4 projects. ST's official *Standard Peripheral Library* is already included in this repository and will automatically be linked against the target application.

Both **C and C++** sources are supported. CMake will also try to find OpenOCD and will generate a *flash* target for easy programming of the microcontroller.

This template includes a sample application which turns on the blue LED on the STM32F4Discovery board for demonstration purposes.

# Prerequisites
Get CMake for your platform. You should use at least **CMake 2.8.12**.

For compiling the project, a GNU C/C++ compiler is required. I highly suggest the [GNU ARM Embedded Toolchain](https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm).
Make sure that the toolchain executables are in your **PATH** environment. If you want to use OpenOCD, also make sure that it is in the **PATH** and the executable is called `openocd`.

# Quick start
Just execute `build.bat` (rename it to `build.sh` for Linux ;-) ). This will create a new directory `build` and will generate common Unix Makefiles for the STM32 project. If all goes well, you can enter `make` for compiling the project.
This will also generate an Intel HEX file (*.hex*), a binary file (*.bin*), a map file (*.map*) generated by the linker and an assembler listing file intermixed with C code (*.lss*) - besides the obvious *.elf* file.

Use `make flash` for flashing via OpenOCD. In this example, the ST-Link on the STM32F4Discovery board is assumed. You might have to adapt this.

# Options
You may want to use `build-debug` in the early development stage. This will generate Makefiles which compile the firmware with no optimization (**-O0**). Otherwise, optimization for size (**-Os**) will be used.

You can also let CMake generate project files for **Eclipse**. Try executing `build-eclipse` which generates a project directory **as a sibling to the root directory of this project**. This is the way recommended by CMake. In Eclipse, just import the newly created project directory. All paths should have been automatically discovered so that the auto-completion feature works.

# Adaption
I tried to keep this template as clean as possible. The CMake settings I made should be self-explaining and you should be able to easily create your own project with this template as a base.

General project settings (the name, STM32 device family, important library defines, the linker and startup files) are made in the [root CMakeLists.txt file](CMakeLists.txt).

In [CMake/GNU-ARM-Toolchain.cmake](CMake/GNU-ARM-Toolchain.cmake), you can find the global C/C++ compiler and core flags. These should be sane for most STM32F4-based projects, but you might need to adjust them.

In the `lib/startup_files` subdirectory, you can find the startup files for all STM32F4 families. Select the correct one and copy it to the `src` directory.

You must also edit [src/CMakeLists.txt](src/CMakeLists.txt) as it contains your source files that should be compiled and linked.

Please also make sure that the linker file is correct. In most applications, this default linker file suffices and the only things you might have to change are the flash and RAM sizes in the `MEMORY` section.

Last but not least: The included [src/system_stm32f4xx.c](src/system_stm32f4xx.c) works for the discovery board. Adapt it to your own needs (clock configuration, PLL, etc.). But this is beyond the scope of this project.

## Other STM32 families
This template targets the STM32F4 family. But targeting other families (e.g. STM32F0) should be easy. Just adapt the core flags and exchange the standard peripheral library.

# References
These projects helped me a lot while creating this template:
- [STM32-CMake-CodeSourcery](https://github.com/adrienbailly/STM32-CMake-CodeSourcery)
- [STM32F4 Discovery board project template](https://github.com/charleskorn/stm32f4-project-template)
